{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f37\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f39\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f40\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f41\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f42\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title  Assigning Liability}{\author orcmid}{\operator orcmid}{\creatim\yr2004\mo4\dy5\hr23\min13}
{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy5\hr23\min13}{\version2}{\edmins219}{\nofpages11}{\nofwords2958}{\nofchars16862}{\*\company NuovoDoc}{\nofcharsws20707}{\vern8229}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale112\viewzk2\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\b\f1\fs40\cf1 DQ1: Assigning Liability}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf6   }{\b\f1\fs28\cf9 When large software systems are developed by many teams in many different locations,}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf9 how should liabilities be assigned? }{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b\f1\fs28\cf9 
To answer the question, consider the example of the Ariane 5 Rocket.     In 1996, an unmanned Ariane 5 rocket launched by the European Space Agency exploded just forty seconds after its lift-off from Kourou, French Guiana. The rocket was on its first voya
g
e, after a decade of development with millions of lines of programming code costing $7 billion. An inquiry found  that the cause of the failure was a software error in the inertial reference system. Specifically a 64 bit floating point number relating to 
the horizontal velocity of the rocket with respect to the platform was converted to a 16 bit signed integer. The number was larger than 32,768, the largest integer storable in a 16 bit signed integer, and thus the conversion failed. }
{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf9 HYPERLINK "http://www.ima.umn.edu/~arnold/disasters/ariane.html"}{\f1\fs20\cf9 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b6a00000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0069006d0061002e0075006d006e002e006500640075002f007e00610072006e006f006c0064002f006400690073006100730074006500720073002f00
61007200690061006e0065002e00680074006d006c000000}}}{\fldrslt {\b\f1\fs28\cf2 http://www.ima.umn.edu/~arnold/disasters/ariane.html}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par On reading this assignment, my first thoughts were on where the responsibility lies.  I was concerned about the overall systems development process fo
r Ariane 5.  I was less concerned with how the bug got there, and instead puzzled how it failed to be detected in what appeared to be critical-system software.  
\par 
\par And I thought (and still maintain) that the liability could not be the software developers.  
It could be in the failure to insist upon, establish and maintain a suitable process for the validation of a critical element.  Unless, of course, test results were falsified, agreed procedures were not performed, and other culpable acts could be found.

\par 
\par Then I wanted to speculate on how application of critical-system software engineering practices would have prevented the problem.  But the ESA knew all of that.  The blind spot was not what I thought.
\par 
\par Fortunately, there is a complete history of this incident, and I would like to take this occasion to point out that from a software engineering and systems engineering perspective, }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 
this was a successfully-followed systems engineering process.   }{\f1\fs28\cf1 Yes, there was a failure.  But because of the quality of the process, it was possible to precisely and clearly identify the origins of the failure and to correct the process.  
}{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 The overflow in the calculation was not the cause.  It was an effect.  It was even detected. }{\f1\fs28\cf1 [Lions1996]}{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par 
\par }{\f1\fs28\cf1 So, now I want to address this question 
of liability in the context of a real engineering failure, with all of its complexities (including unanticipated usage and unforeseen interactions).  The "real" story is an even better lesson in the systems engineering, risk management, and quality assura
nce of complex, engineered systems that operate in the real world, at real costs of failure.
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par }{\f1\fs28\cf1 And then, I think, the answer to the question asked will follow.
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par }\pard \ql \li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\b\f1\fs28\cf1 1.\tab What Really Happened
\par 2.\tab From Defeat, Victory: A Triumph of Systems Engineering
\par 3.\tab When Professionals Investigate
\par 4.\tab A New Regard for System-Critical Software
\par 5.\tab The Assignment of Liability
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par }{\b\f1\fs32\cf1 1.\tab What Really Happened}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par 
\par I suspected that this was at least a validation failure, and I have confirmed that.  It was not a verification failure, nor even a software failure, as such.  
\par 
\par The inquiry, in fact, did not find that the root cause of the failure was the software at all.  The inquiry did find a multi-point, multi-party failure in requirements assumptions, in risk assessment, in testing and validation and }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 
in the failure to revalidate the particular subsystem when conditions changed}{\f1\fs28\cf1  (i.e., continuing operation for 40 seconds after launch and under Ariane 5 flight conditions).
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par The software was designed to do what it did}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .  The problem was (1) it was forgotten that it was designed to do that -- and why, (2) the inclusion of the software in pre-mission simulation tests was aband
oned for Ariane 5, because it was proven to be working for Ariane 4 (}{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 big engineering mistake}{\f1\fs28\cf1 ), and (3) }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 the software was running when it wasn't even needed.  }{\f1\fs28\cf1 
This was done to save the prospect of a 45-minute launch delay for restarting Ariane 4 after a laun
ch hold.  But the particular restart penalty does not obtain with Ariane 5.  The Ariane 5 launch team wasn't sure of all reasons why operation after launch was introduced for Ariane 4, so they thought it best not to change it.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs32\cf1 2.\tab From Defeat, Victory: A Triumph of Systems Engineering}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par 
\par The most important lesson from the fascinating account of James Gleick [1996] and the more-fascinating, professionally-dry report of the Board of Inquiry [Lloyd1996], was that }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 the engineering process worked}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .  
\par 
\par The Board of Inquiry, led by the President of the Acad\'e9mie des Sciences (a world-renowned expert in numerical analysis and numerical calculations by computer), knew how to look at real-world problems of engineered systems: 
\par }{\cf1 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 
"The Board's findings are based on thorough and open presentations from the Ariane 5 project teams, and on documentation which has demonstrated the high quality of the Ariane 5 programme as regards engineering work in general and completeness and traceabi
lity of documents." [Lions1996]
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par Yes, there was a failure.  Because of the quality of the development process, it was possible to precisely determine the state of affairs and reproduce it successfully by simulation with the actual software.  In addition, }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 th
e failures of the process, which were several and diffuse, were clearly identifiable and remedied.}{\f1\fs28\cf1   There were adequate records and engineering data, nothing was withheld, and the analysis appears to have been impeccable.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 No liability was found}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .  There was no culpability.  There were mistakes, and a succession of errors by different parties, at different levels of responsibility, that had cumulative and disastrous consequences.
\par 
\par Based on the 1996 investigation, there were both immediate and long-term corre
ctions -- to the direct problems and the overall requirements and validation process.  Ariane 5 flies successfully today, Ariane 4 was retired in 2000 and the next Ariane 5 launch is in June 2003 [ESA].  
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 3.\tab When Professionals Investigate}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par 
\par From the original charge of the investigatory commission, notice the importance given to the process that led to failure [Lions1996]:
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 - to determine the causes of the launch failure, 
\par 
\par - to investigate whether the qualification tests and acceptance tests were appropriate in relation to the problem encountered, 
\par 
\par - to recommend corrective action to remove the causes of the anomaly and other possible weaknesses of the systems found to be at fault.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par The recommendations of the Board are somewhat lengthy but extremely informative in the context of this course [Lions1996] (my emphasis and comments):
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R1}{\f1\fs28\cf1  Switch off the alignment function of the inertial reference system immediately after lift-off. More generally, }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 
no software function should run during flight unless it is needed.}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R2}{\f1\fs28\cf1  Prepare a test facility including as much real equipment as technically feasible, inject realistic input data, and perform complete, closed-loop, system testing. }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 Comp
lete simulations must take place before any mission. A high test coverage has to be obtained.
\par }{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R3}{\f1\fs28\cf1  }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 Do not allow any sensor, such as the inertial reference system, to stop sending best effort data.}{\f1\fs28\cf1  [Shutting down, instead of failing gracefully, was a catastr
ophic choice based on an incorrect risk assumption (section 4).]
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R4}{\f1\fs28\cf1  Organize, for each item of equipment incorporating software, a specific software qualification review. The Industrial Architect shall take part in these reviews and report on complete sys
tem testing performed with the equipment. }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 All restrictions on use of the equipment shall be made explicit for the Review Board.}{\f1\fs28\cf1  }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 Make all critical software a Configuration Controlled Item (CCI)}{
\f1\fs28\cf1 .
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R5}{\f1\fs28\cf1  Review all flight software (including embedded software), and in particular:
\par }\pard \ql \li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 - }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 
Identify all implicit assumptions made by the code and its justification documents on the values of quantities provided by the equipment. Check these assumptions against the restrictions on use of the equipment. }{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par - }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 Verify the range of values taken by any internal or communication variables in the software}{\f1\fs28\cf1 . 
\par - Solutions to potential problems in the on-board computer software, paying particular attention to on-board computer switch over, shall be proposed by the project team and reviewed 
by a group of external experts, who shall report to the on-board computer Qualification Board. 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R6}{\f1\fs28\cf1  Wherever technically feasible, }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 consider confining exceptions to tasks and devise backup capabilities}{\f1\fs28\cf1 . [The design error in the inertial reference platform i
nvolved an exception being raised and being allowed to go uncaught.  The default behavior for an uncaught exception was to shut down, and that is what the inertial reference platform did.  It also informed its client of that fact, but the client was not d
esigned to notice, and processed the fault notification as flight data. --dh:]
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R7}{\f1\fs28\cf1  Provide more data to the telemetry upon failure of any component, so that recovering equipment will be less essential.  [In the Ariane 501 launch case, the equipment was recovered.  -- dh:]
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R8}{\f1\fs28\cf1  }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 Reconsider the definition of critical components, taking failures of software origin into account (particularly single point failures).}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R9}{\f1\fs28\cf1  Include external (to the project) participants when reviewing specifications, code and justification documents. }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 Make sure that these reviews consider the substance of arguments,}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
 rather than check that verifications have been made. [That is, provide validation as well, using external experts.]
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R10}{\f1\fs28\cf1  Include trajectory data in specifications and test requirements.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R11}{\f1\fs28\cf1  Review the test coverage of existing equipment and extend it where it is deemed necessary.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R12}{\f1\fs28\cf1  }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 Give the justification documents the same attention as code. Improve the technique for keeping code and its justifications consistent.}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
 [This means that the reasons for decisions must be recorded and reviewed, not just the resulting code. --dh:]
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R13}{\f1\fs28\cf1  Set up a team that will prepare the procedure for qualifying software, propose stringent rules 
for confirming such qualification, and ascertain that specification, verification and testing of software are of a consistently high quality in the Ariane 5 programme. Including external RAMS experts is to be considered.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 R14}{\f1\fs28\cf1  A more transparent organizatio
n of the cooperation among the partners in the Ariane 5 programme must be considered. Close engineering cooperation, with clear cut authority and responsibility, is needed to achieve system coherence, with simple and clear interfaces between partners.}{
\cf1 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 4.\tab A New Regard for Critical-System Software}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par Along with the specific recommendations, the Board of Inquiry }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 identified a blind spot in systems thinking about software. }{\f1\fs28\cf1  It is fundamental.  Here is how the Board described the lesson and a new way of thinking 
about software in critical systems:
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li1440\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 
An underlying theme in the development of Ariane 5 is the bias towards the mitigation of random failure. The supplier of the [inertial reference system] was only following the specification given to it, which stipulated
 that in the event of any detected exception the processor was to be stopped. The exception which occurred was not due to random failure but a design error. The exception was detected, but inappropriately handled because }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 the}{
\f1\fs28\cf1  }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 view had been taken that software should be considered correct until it is shown to be at fault}{\f1\fs28\cf1 . The Board has reason to believe that this view is also accepted in other areas of Ariane 5 software design. }{
\b\f1\fs28\cf1 The Board is in favour of the opposite view, that software should be assumed to be faulty until applying the currently accepted best practice methods can demonstrate that it is correct. }{\f1\fs28\cf1  [emphasis mine -- dh:]
\par 
\par This means that }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 critical software - in the sense that failure of the software puts the mission at risk - must be identified at 
a very detailed level, that exceptional behavior must be confined, and that a reasonable back-up policy must take software failures into account.}{\f1\fs28\cf1   [Lions1996]}{\cf1 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 5.\tab The Assignment of Liability}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par 
\par There was no liability in this case, because there was no breach
 of trust or fraudulent act.  There were defects in the quality process that created a mesh through which a catastrophic defect could and did arise.  The question becomes whether or not appropriate processes, based on the practice of the art at the time, 
were honored.  
\par 
\par In this case, the greatest failure was in not realizing that }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 software is inherently untrustworthy}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
.   The second lesson is that software which is based on limiting assumptions is too easily applied with that assumption forgotten or ignored.  The Board of Inquiry detected this failure and specified a correction.
\par 
\par Where would there be liability in software engineering?  First, in misrepresentation of qualifi
cations and claiming of expertise that is not possessed.  Secondly, in willfully abandoning the maintenance of professional standards and practices where they are tacitly assumed to have been applied.  Third, in falsifying or misrepresenting the applicati
on of standards, measurements, and assessments.  Fourth, acting in clear violation of any other ethical principles that customers and the public trusts the software engineer to honor.
\par 
\par }{\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par ---------------
\par }{\f1\fs28\cf1 \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 [Arnold2000]
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf1 HYPERLINK "http://www.ima.umn.edu/~arnold/index.html"}{\f1\fs20\cf1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b5400000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0069006d0061002e0075006d006e002e006500640075002f007e00610072006e006f006c0064002f0069006e006400650078002e00680074006d006c00
0000}}}{\fldrslt {\f1\fs28\cf2 Arnold, Douglas N}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .  }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf1 HYPERLINK "http://www.ima.umn.edu/~arnold/disasters/ariane.html"}{\f1\fs20\cf1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b6a00000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0069006d0061002e0075006d006e002e006500640075002f007e00610072006e006f006c0064002f006400690073006100730074006500720073002f00
61007200690061006e0065002e00680074006d006c000000}}}{\fldrslt {\f1\fs28\cf2 The Explosion of the Ariane 5}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .  On-line article, published on the web at }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf1 HYPERLINK
 "http://www.ima.umn.edu/~arnold/disasters/ariane.html"}{\f1\fs20\cf1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b6a00000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0069006d0061002e0075006d006e002e006500640075002f007e00610072006e006f006c0064002f006400690073006100730074006500720073002f00
61007200690061006e0065002e00680074006d006c000000}}}{\fldrslt {\f1\fs28\cf2 http://www.ima.umn.edu/~arnold/disasters/ariane.html}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .  2000 August 23.  The Ariane explosion was the least costly of }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf1 
HYPERLINK "http://www.ima.umn.edu/~arnold/disasters/disasters.html"}{\f1\fs20\cf1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b7000000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0069006d0061002e0075006d006e002e006500640075002f007e00610072006e006f006c0064002f006400690073006100730074006500720073002f00
6400690073006100730074006500720073002e00680074006d006c000000}}}{\fldrslt {\f1\fs28\cf2 three disasters}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
 that are attributable to bad numerical computing.  One took 28 lives, and another represented a loss of $1 Billion, US.  (The direct loss of the Ariane 5 was $500 Million.)
\par \tab One of the aspects that I found most interesting i
n   assignment is the suggestion that the software cost $7 Billion, US.    The entire Ariane program was a $7 Billion investment.  The value of the direct loss of the booster and payload was $500 million.  And in fact, it is the payload that represents a 
loss.
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 [CNN1996]
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 CNN.  }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf1 HYPERLINK "http://www.cnn.com/WORLD/9606/04/rocket.explode/"}{\f1\fs20\cf1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b6200000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0063006e006e002e0063006f006d002f0057004f0052004c0044002f0039003600300036002f00300034002f0072006f0063006b00650074002e006500
780070006c006f00640065002f000000}}}{\fldrslt {\f1\fs28\cf2 Unmanned European Rocket Explodes on First Flight}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .  1996 June 4.  Posted on the web, 1600 gmt.  At the time, the rocket was reported to have been destroyed by its
 ground controllers.  The loss was of a four-satellite scientific package valued at $500 Million, US.
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 [ESA]
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 European Space Agency.  }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf1 HYPERLINK "http://www.esa.int/export/esaLA/NextLaunch.html"}{\f1\fs20\cf1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b6000000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e006500730061002e0069006e0074002f006500780070006f00720074002f006500730061004c0041002f004e006500780074004c00610075006e006300
68002e00680074006d006c000000}}}{\fldrslt {\f1\fs28\cf2 Next Launches}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .  Published on the ESA Web Site at }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf1 HYPERLINK "http://www.esa.int/export/esaLA/NextLaunch.html"}{\f1\fs20\cf1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b6000000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e006500730061002e0069006e0074002f006500780070006f00720074002f006500730061004c0041002f004e006500780074004c00610075006e006300
68002e00680074006d006c000000}}}{\fldrslt {\f1\fs28\cf2 http://www.esa.int/export/esaLA/NextLaunch.html}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .
\par \tab The workhorse Ariane 4 was retired in 2000.  Its successor, Ariane 5 and other models continue in operation, with launch 160 scheduled for June (using an Ariane 5 launcher).
\par \tab ESA no longer carries information on the Ariane 5 explosion.  Perhaps an unsettling sign.  Donald Arnold continues to make the investigator's report available.
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 [Gleick1996]
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf1 HYPERLINK "http://www.around.com/"}{\f1\fs20\cf1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b2e00000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e00610072006f0075006e0064002e0063006f006d002f000000}}}{\fldrslt {\f1\fs28\cf2 Gleick, James}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .  }
{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf1 HYPERLINK "http://www.around.com/ariane.html"}{\f1\fs20\cf1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b4400000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e00610072006f0075006e0064002e0063006f006d002f0061007200690061006e0065002e00680074006d006c000000}}}{\fldrslt {\f1\fs28\cf2 
A Bug and a Crash: Sometimes a Bug Is More Than a Nuisance}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .  }{\i\f1\fs28\cf1 New York Times Magazine}{\f1\fs28\cf1 , 1996 December 1.  Reprinted on the web at }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf1 HYPERLINK
 "http://www.around.com/ariane.html"}{\f1\fs20\cf1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b4400000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e00610072006f0075006e0064002e0063006f006d002f0061007200690061006e0065002e00680074006d006c000000}}}{\fldrslt {\f1\fs28\cf2 
http://www.around.com/ariane.html}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 . 
\par \tab Gleick provides a colorful analysis.  It indicates that an automatic self-destruct mechanism exploded the vehicle, and that the payload was uninsured.  The self-destruct mechanism operated because the vehicle had gon
e aerodynamically unstable and the boosters were being ripped from the rocket.  
\par \tab It turns out that the guidance system received undecipherable data from the inertial platform software and }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 the arithmetic error was detected by the software}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .  The problem was
 that the error message, which was undecipherable and misinterpreted by the rest of the system, was not part of the expected behavior.  In addition, }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 there was a redundant system on board}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
, but it was there for hardware, not software failure: it ran the same software and failed the same way.  In fact, the backup system failed milliseconds before the live system.
\par \tab Finally, this software had run successfully before, and the limitation was known.  But }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 at the time of its design into Ariane 4, the velocities at which the overflow would occur were not attainable.}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
  With Ariane 5, they were attainable and they did attain.
\par \tab The most exciting part of the fiasco is that the failing software "actually }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 served no purpose once the rocket was in the air}{\f1\fs28\cf1 . Its only function was
 to align the system before launch."  The software was left running as a "feature" so that if there was a hold in the last few seconds of launch, the alignment wouldn't have to be started up again.
\par \tab Although Gleick finds the Board of Inquiry report rather dry, as a demonstration of software forensics it is marvelous and very pertinent to the work of the class this week [Lions1996].
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 [Lions1996]
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf1 HYPERLINK "http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/Mathematicians/Lions_Jacques-Louis.html"}{\f1\fs20\cf1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90ba800000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002d00670072006f007500700073002e006400630073002e00730074002d0061006e0064002e00610063002e0075006b002f007e0068006900730074006f00
720079002f004d0061007400680065006d006100740069006300690061006e0073002f004c0069006f006e0073005f004a006100630071007500650073002d004c006f007500690073002e00680074006d006c000000}}}{\fldrslt {\f1\fs28\cf2 Lions, Jacques-Louis}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
 (chair).  Ariane 5 Flight 501 Failure.  Report by the ESA and CNES Inquiry Board. Paris, 1996 July 19.   Available on the web at }{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf1 HYPERLINK "http://www.ima.umn.edu/~arnold/disasters/ariane5rep.html"}{\f1\fs20\cf1 
{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b7200000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e0069006d0061002e0075006d006e002e006500640075002f007e00610072006e006f006c0064002f006400690073006100730074006500720073002f00
61007200690061006e00650035007200650070002e00680074006d006c000000}}}{\fldrslt {\f1\fs28\cf2 http://www.ima.umn.edu/~arnold/disasters/ariane5rep.html}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .
\par \tab The self-destruction of the vehicle was not computer directed or directed by ground controllers.  It was an automatic arrangement upon the severing of electrical connections between the boosters and the main veh
icle.  This was designed-in behavior and it operated properly.
\par \tab The analysis of the explosion discovered a hydraulic pressure anomaly that was unrelated to the failure but that was pointed out to be addressed before any further Ariane 5 flights.
\par \tab The softw
are that failed was written in Ada, and arithmetic errors were protected by exceptions.  Unfortunately, because this particular exception was thought to be impossible and to arise only as a hardware failure, there was no software to catch the exception an
d provide some benign outcome.
\par \tab The analysis indicates that diagnostic data (because of the number conversion) was being reported by the inertial reference system, and the control computer was incorrectly interpreting the diagnostic messages as flight data.
  The inertial platform system was designed to shut down on unprotected exception and it did. There was no risk analysis for the inappropriateness of such a shutdown being the consequence of a software failure and hence threatening the entire guidance ope
ration of a mission.
\par \tab The fact that the software was even running was totally unnecessary any time after lift-off.
\par \tab None of the QA, testing, and simulation methodologies allowed for anything but random hardware failures.  There was no consideration of possi
ble software failures, and the inertial platform system was considered correct until proven to have failed.  For this reason, the inertial platform system was not included in simulations of flight conditions for Ariane 5 missions.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par }{\b\f1\fs20\cf1 Gail Miles,Embanet writes:
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf6   }{\b\f1\fs28\cf9 
When large software systems are developed by many teams in many different locations, how should liabilities be assigned?  To answer the question, consider the example of the Ariane 5 Rocket.     In 1996, an unmanned Ariane 5 rocket launched by the Eur
opean Space Agency exploded just forty seconds after its lift-off from Kourou, French Guiana. The rocket was on its first voyage, after a decade of development with millions of lines of programming code costing $7 billion. An inquiry found  that the cause
 
of the failure was a software error in the inertial reference system. Specifically a 64 bit floating point number relating to the horizontal velocity of the rocket with respect to the platform was converted to a 16 bit signed integer. The number was large
r than 32,768, the largest integer storable in a 16 bit signed integer, and thus the conversion failed. http://www.ima.umn.edu/~arnold/disasters/ariane.html
\par }{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par 
\par }{\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par }{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par 
\par -- orcmid traveling with Compagno
\par -----------------------------------------
\par Dennis E. Hamilton | on-line M.Sc in IT student | KIT eLearning
\par mailto:Dennis_Hamilton@embanet.com | gsm:+1-206.779.9430
\par mailto:Dennis.Hamilton@acm.org | http://orcmid.com
\par 
\par 
\par }}