{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\fi-720\li1440\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\i\f5 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\fi-720\li2160\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl3
\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f4 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\fi-720\li2880\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl4\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\i\f4 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}{
\s5\fi-720\li3600\sb240\sa60{\*\pn \pnlvl5\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}{\s6\fi-720\li4320\sb240\sa60{\*\pn \pnlvl6\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\i\f5\fs22 
\sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}{\s7\fi-720\li5040\sb240\sa60{\*\pn \pnlvl7\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{\s8\fi-720\li5760\sb240\sa60{\*\pn \pnlvl8\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}\i\f5\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 8;}{\s9\fi-720\li6480\sb240\sa60{\*\pn \pnlvl9\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\i\f5\fs18 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 9;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15 \f11\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext15 Comment;}{\s16\li720 \f11\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext16 Definition;}{\s17\li360 \f11\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext16 Style;}{\s18 \f11\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext18 SB code;}{\s19 \f11\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext19 SB def;}{\s20 \f11\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext19 
SB style;}{\s21\qc\sb240\sa60 \b\f5\fs32\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}{\s22\fi-360\li360 \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 List;}{\s23\sb120\sa120 \b\f4\fs20 \sbasedon22\snext23 Author;}{\s24\sb120\sa120 \b\f4\fs20 \sbasedon22\snext24 SubmissionDate;}{
\s25\sb120\sa120 \b\f4\fs20 \sbasedon22\snext25 Revision;}{\s26\fi-360\li360{\*\pn \pnlvl11\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext26 List Bullet;}}{\info{\author Zippy}{\creatim\yr1996\mo2\dy12\hr10\min44}{\version1}
{\edmins78}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49197}}\margl0\margr0 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0 {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s21\qc\sb240\sa60 \b\f5\fs32\kerning28 DMA Architecture Enhancement Proposal for <Topic>
\par \pard\plain \s23\sb120\sa120 \b\f4\fs20 DMA <topic> Subcommittee 
\par \pard\plain \s24\sb120\sa120 \b\f4\fs20 <date>
\par \pard\plain \s25\sb120\sa120 \b\f4\fs20 <number>
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 Fill in the appropriate information above. Modify the title to describe the topic. Indicate the authoring subcommittee, submission date, and revision of your submis
sion. Draft submissions should be labeled with some # < 1.0, ie 0.8, 0.9, etc. Your first formal submission should be labeled 1.0, subsequent formal submissions should be rev-ved as 1.1, 1.2, 1.x, etc.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 1.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 Functional Overview / Description
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 
This section should provide a conceptual overview of the feature(s) included in your submission. Details about new interfaces and properties should be deferred to the sections below. This section should focus on how the architecture is extended and improv
ed by this submission.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 2.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 New/Changed Properties
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 Describe new properties. This section might be excluded in draft submissions, although it must be considered in final submissions. Enter \ldblquote not applicable\rdblquote 
 in this section if your submission introduces no new properties.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 3.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 New/Changed Interfaces
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 Describe new interfaces. May be excluded for draft submissions. Must be completed for final submissions. \ldblquote Not applicable\rdblquote  if no new or changed interfaces.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 4.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 Architectural Impacts
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 This section should describe how the change impacts other parts of Architecture. Consider the effects of each section listed below. Enter \ldblquote Not applicable\rdblquote 
 in the appropriate sections. This indicates that you have considered the impact, and believe there is none.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\i\f5 4.1.\tab}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li1440\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\i\f5 Integration Model
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 How does your change impact the DMA integration model ? The integration model addresses the following general areas:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s26\fi-360\li360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f4\fs20 Service element integration
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\pard \s26\fi-360\li360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}Applications locating information about DMA systems in their environment
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}Installing DMA systems into operating system environments
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}DMA integration with other sw architectures:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\tab COM
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\tab ODMA
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\tab OLE
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\tab Internet technologies
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\tab \tab HTTP
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\tab \tab HTML
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\tab \tab MIME
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\tab \tab Java
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\tab OMG services
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\i\f5 4.2.\tab}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li1440\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\i\f5 Query
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 How does your change impact the DMA query  model ? The query model addresses the following general areas:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s26\fi-360\li360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f4\fs20 Query construction
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\pard \s26\fi-360\li360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}Query execution
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}Result set management
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 If you are introducing new objects, do they participate in the query model (ie can they be queried ?)
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\i\f5 4.3.\tab}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li1440\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\i\f5 I18N (Internationalization)
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 As of mid-February 1996 the DMA architecture is being reviewed and revised to incorporate support for global 
environments. Between now and our April meeting submission authors should coordinate with the DMA NLS subcommittee to understand what changes your submission may have on the internationalization
\par \pard \s15 of the DMA architecture. General areas to consider are:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\pard\plain \s26\fi-360\li360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}\f4\fs20 Character data types will be wide
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\pard \s26\fi-360\li360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent360\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}Message strings will be localized
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}DMA systems will be statically typed with their character sets (The nature of this typing, and how static/dynamic it is are still under discussion)
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}Where in the system character set vs. language should be identified
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\i\f5 4.4.\tab}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li1440\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\i\f5 Content
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 
How does your submission affect the content of objects accessed through DMA ? Are you changing the DMA content model ?Are you adding new content types ? Are you changing the way in which content is moved across a DMA system boundary ? 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\i\f5 4.5.\tab}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li1440\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\i\f5 Security
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 
How does your submission affect the security of objects accessed through DMA systems ? Does your submissions change how authentication is done between DMA applications and DMA service elements ? Does your change improve/degrade the abil
ity of document spaces to externalize their own security practices through DMA ? Are you adding any encryption capabilities ? 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\i\f5 4.6.\tab}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li1440\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\i\f5 Naming
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 
How does your submission impact how things are named in DMA ? If you are introducing new objects, do they possess GUIDs ? Can they be separately named, or only located through navigation of other objects ? Are you introducing new naming concepts ? Are you
 using a naming model from an extant system or standard (for example URLs ?)
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\i\f5 4.7.\tab}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li1440\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\i\f5 What requirement does this address?
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 Whenever possible, trace the submission back to a specific requirements in the user requirements document for DMA. In general, our bias should be to strongly question any architecture change request that can\rquote 
t be linked back to a requirement. If our customer base didn\rquote t ask for this feature, why are we providing it ?
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b 4.7.1.\tab}\pard\plain \s3\fi-720\li2160\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl3\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f4 Why is this a good solution?
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 In this section you should provide some self-critique of your approach. Describe alternatives that were discarded, and the criteria you used in determining that this change is a good solution to the problem.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\i\f5 4.8.\tab}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li1440\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl2\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\i\f5 4.6\tab Failure Modes / Crash Recovery
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 Although we\rquote 
ve explicitly excluced a detailed description of the DMA transaction model, you should discuss failure modes and crash recovery issues if your submission has any peculiarities in this regard. If your change significantly improves or degrades t
he ability of DMA compliant systems to recover from error conditions, describe the impact of your change in this section.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 5.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 Reference Materials
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 We want to insure that consideration has been 
given to existing research into each of our topic areas. This area may be excluded in a draft submission, but must be completed in a final submission, and must include at least 2 references. These may be specific journals, or existing product documentatio
n, or notes from a verbal/e-mail conversation with a topic expert. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 6.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 Extant systems with similar features and related experiences
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 This is similar to the previous section, but is more focused on existing product implementations. For example, the containment s
ubcommittee might reference a journal arcticle describing electronic filing cabinets in section 5. In this section a list of the features and failings of existing implementations could be presented. This provides reviewers with insights into the state of 
the existing art in this particular technical area. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 7.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 Compliance & Conformance Issues
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 This section will be weak quantitatively because we\rquote ve excluded compliance and conformance testing from our v1 set of deliverables. However, if your submission introduces a
ny unique or potentially contentious issues around compliance and conformance, address those issues here. For example, if your submission provides for a wide ranging level of conformance, or perhaps a very narrow range of conformance (works or doesn
\rquote t), describe these features here in qualititative terms. If you have suggestions for how conformance levels could be defined, include them in your submission.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 8.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 Sample usage
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 Provide an example of how this feature is used. This can be provided as either a code example, or as descriptive text. If you can\rquote t think up a compelling sample usage, you should not be suggesting this enhancement !

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 9.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 Glossary / Nomenclature
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 List new or ambiguous terms you\rquote ve used in your submission. Commonly used DMA terms such as \ldblquote document space\rdblquote  or \ldblquote service provider interface\rdblquote 
 do not need to be redefined in your submission. However, any new terms, or terms you feel have been ambiguously used prior to your submission should be included in this glossary.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 10.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 Impact on Existing Systems
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 Describe how this change will impact existing systems that could be integrated into a DMA system. For example, i
ncluding a containment model would allow repositories that have a containment model to externalize this through their document space. Browsers that support hierarchical navigation could navigate through DMA object hierarchies using the DMA containment mod
el, and display these hierarchies in their Uis. 
\par \pard \s15 
\par \pard \s15 If you are making a change that will change the behavior of functionality already specified in the DSCD, specify the type of change in this section.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 11.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 Performance Impact
\par \pard\plain \f4\fs20 Describe the performance impact of your suggested changes. Does your change force implementations that have poor performance ? Consider the fact that DMA systems will be implemented in distributed environments. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 12.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 Backwards Compatibility
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 This section is probably not applicable for the first round of submissions, but will be useful in subsequent revisions to the architecture.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 13.\tab}\pard\plain \s1\fi-720\li720\sb240\sa60\keepn{\*\pn \pnlvl1\pndec\pnprev1\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\b\f5\fs28\kerning28 How is this Incorporated into the specification?
\par \pard\plain \s15 \f11\fs20 Describe the  specific changes that should be made to the architecture to incorporate your change. Describe new sections that 
should be added, additions/deletions to existing sections. Specify if your change includes updates to the objects and interfaces Access databases used to generate the spec.
\par }