{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f26\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040604050505020304}Century;}{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f36\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f37\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f39\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f40\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f41\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f42\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f236\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Century CE;}{\f237\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Century Cyr;}{\f239\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Century Greek;}
{\f240\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Century Tur;}{\f243\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Century Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;\red64\green0\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title KMK-2004-02-06-1630-KMK-ORC.rtf}
{\subject Red Flag Problems}{\author orcmid}{\doccomm A note about Van Horn's dicta and prospects for making a dissertation project around this sort of thing.}{\operator orcmid}{\creatim\yr2004\mo2\dy7\hr17\min28}{\revtim\yr2004\mo2\dy7\hr17\min34}
{\version2}{\edmins6}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords657}{\nofchars3749}{\*\company NuovoDoc}{\nofcharsws4604}{\vern8229}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale112\viewzk2\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brsp20\brdrcf9 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brsp80\brdrcf9 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brsp20\brdrcf9 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brsp80\brdrcf9 \faauto\rin0\lin0\rtlgutter\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1 
[Mailnote to Kathleen Kelm, as part of KIT eLearning module MSC-CC-040205-01 chatting about the red flag problem and how I was close to having set off my "I've had enough" switch.  Posted 2004-02-06-16:30 -0800.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1 
\par }{\f1\fs28\cf1 Hi KMK,
\par 
\par I will take your advice, though I am particularly grumpy because this is Friday and I am running Norton Antivirus over in my administrative account and that makes FirstClass run even more clumsily.  
\par 
\par In the spirit of empirical computer science, I can testify that posting to a folder from off-line has nothing to do with provoking synchronization of other new material in that folder back to the off-line version.
\par 
\par However my workaround still works.  It's a bother.
\par 
\par With regard to your question about dissertat
ion projects, there's one in here abstracted to how does one troubleshoot application protocols (like the FirstClass ones) without requiring user expertise at the edges and without requiring the user to do too much work in providing reliable information b
ack to the troubleshooters?
\par 
\par See, I am turning this problem into an opportunity!
\par 
\par This is a generic question.  I remember when I first saw a Xerox Alto computer in operation, around 1977, I was struck by the fact that crashes of applications would automatically lead to dumps and reports transmitted back to a trouble-shooting site.  I t
hink mainframes have done things like that at various times.
\par 
\par Here on Windows XP Pro, there are little invitations to allow failure information (also about FirstClass) to be sent to some central point, but that is apparently just enough to know there's a pr
oblem and I have no idea what is done that will of be any use to me.  Being of use to anonymous others is not all that thrilling, and I stopped clicking "Yes" on those after the first few times.  This is a feedbackless data-collection system and I am not 
interested in being a drone in such a process.
\par 
\par I remember a famous paper (in my eyes, I think it is long forgotten and I will see what I can do to revive it), by }{\strike\f1\fs28\cf1 Jack Dennis}{\f1\fs28\cf1  (oops, Earl C. Van Horn [1]) even longer ago about "reproducible behavior" as a pr
inciple.   At the time, people had all sorts of reasons to say that what he was calling for in his little manifesto was too  hard and too costly considering the size of machines at that time.  I think times have changed and we need to take another look at
 what Jack had to say.
\par 
\par I will certainly add this to my collection of confirmable experiences (mostly not!) and system coherence failures.  
\par 
\par -- Dennis
\par 
\par PS: I see we have another DH in this module so I will use ORC as initials on messages at times.  I find that there is apparently no other "orcmid" on the entire planet that is on the Internet.  Amazing for a 6-character name. -- orcmid
\par 
\par [1] Van Horn, Earl C.  (1967) Three criteria for designing computing systems to facilitate debugging.  Proceedings of the first ACM Symposium on Operating System Principles.  J. Gosden and B. Randall (eds).  ACM Press (New York: 1967).  Also }
{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\f1\fs20\cf1 HYPERLINK "http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/363095.363145"}{\f1\fs20\cf1 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000003000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b5200000068007400740070003a002f002f0064006f0069002e00610063006d002e006f00720067002f00310030002e0031003100340035002f003300360033003000390035002e003300360033003100340035000000}
}}{\fldrslt {\i\f1\fs28\cf2 Comm. ACM }{\b\i\f1\fs28\cf2 11}{\f1\fs28\cf2 , 5 (May 1968), 360-365}}}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .   I read this in the }{\i\f1\fs28\cf1 Comm. ACM}{\f1\fs28\cf1  versi
on.  Interesting issue.  It is where Peter Denning published the working-set model and other interesting articles appeared.  It would be interesting to see how Van Horn's dicta can serve us in the context of distributed computing.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs20\cf1 Kathleen Kelm,Embanet writes:
\par Dennis Hamilton writes:
\par }{\f26\fs28\cf17 Hi Dennis
\par 
\par }{\f1\fs28\cf1 Enough venting.  I'll surrender my soapbox.  I think there was just a message that I may have lost my connection.
\par 
\par --- Dennis
\par 
\par }{\f26\fs28\cf17 
\par }{\f1\fs28\cf1 OK, I am off my soap box.  I really want to be in this course and not surviving FirstClass though. }{\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par }{\f26\fs28\cf17 
\par I can understand your frustration.  I have been working with KIT for over two years, and this is the very first time that I have encountered any problems of this magnititude.  I know, based on information both posted for the students as well 
as from our VP, that there is quite a lot of work being done behind the scenes to correct the problem.
\par 
\par Please try (although I can see why it's hard to!) to keep your frustration at the back and enjoy the course.  I promise you (and I have taught this module before) that it is quite an enjoyable one. :-)
\par 
\par KMK}{\f1\fs20\cf1 
\par }{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par 
\par -- orcmid operating on Compagno
\par -------------------------------
\par Dennis E. Hamilton | KIT eLearning student | University of Liverpool on-line M.Sc in IT 
\par mailto:Dennis.Hamilton@acm.org | gsm:+1-206.779.9430
\par http://orcmid.com | http://nfoWare.com | http://miser-theory.info
\par OpenPGP public key fingerprint BFE5 EFB8 CB51 8781 5274  C056 D80D 0C3F A393 27EC
\par 
\par }}