{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f37\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f39\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f40\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f41\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f42\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title There is something that I may not have emphasized enough, and I want to point it out clearly:}{\author orcmid}
{\operator orcmid}{\creatim\yr2004\mo4\dy5\hr23\min28}{\revtim\yr2004\mo4\dy5\hr23\min28}{\version2}{\edmins3}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords463}{\nofchars2642}{\*\company NuovoDoc}{\nofcharsws3244}{\vern8229}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale112\viewzk2\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\f1\fs28\cf1 There is something that I may not have emphasized enough, and I want to point it out clearly:
\par 
\par The test of a software engineering process is not when things go well.  The test of any engineering discipline is
 how well it holds up and what it provides when the chips are down, the fat is in the fire, there is a spanner in the works, and it is raining manure.
\par 
\par The notion of trustworthiness (as in trustworthy computing) is not in being perfect, but in how defects are remedied when detected and in how well a reliable process was followed for providing a way for dealing with those defects that will arise.
\par 
\par It is also an important lesson that many, many serious defects are process and design errors, not technical bugs
.  And we should still have zero tolerance for bugs. That doesn't mean there won't be any.  But having zero tolerance for them, successfully applied, provides a much greater basis for trust in the supplier of the product.  And it is after all, other peopl
e we are trusting.  Always, whether we know their names or not.
\par 
\par Just like friendship, family, and intimate relationships: the true test is in the face of adversity, not the easy parts.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs20\cf1 Dennis Hamilton writes:
\par }{\b\f1\fs40\cf1 DQ1: Assigning Liability}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf6  }{\f1\fs28\cf1 [ ... ]
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs32\cf1 2.\tab From Defeat, Victory: A Triumph of Systems Engineering}{\f1\fs28\cf1 
\par 
\par The most important lesson from the fascinating account of James Gleick [1996] and the more-fascinating, professionally-dry report of the Board of Inquiry [Lloyd1996], was that }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 the engineering process worked}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .  
\par 
\par The Board of Inquiry, led by the President of the Acad\'e9mie des Sciences (a world-renowned expert in numerical analysis and numerical calculations by computer), knew how to look at real-world problems of engineered systems: 
\par }{\cf1 
\par }{\f1\fs28\cf1 "The Board's finding
s are based on thorough and open presentations from the Ariane 5 project teams, and on documentation which has demonstrated the high quality of the Ariane 5 programme as regards engineering work in general and completeness and traceability of documents." 
[Lions1996]
\par 
\par Yes, there was a failure.  Because of the quality of the development process, it was possible to precisely determine the state of affairs and reproduce it successfully by simulation with the actual software.  In addition, }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 
the failures of the process, which were several and diffuse, were clearly identifiable and remedied.}{\f1\fs28\cf1   There were adequate records and engineering data, nothing was withheld, and the analysis appears to have been impeccable.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\cf1 No liability was found}{\f1\fs28\cf1 .  There was no culpability.  There were mistakes, and a succession of errors by different parties, at different levels of responsibility, that had cumulative and disastrous consequences.
\par 
\par Based on the 1996 investigation, there were both immediate and long-term corrections -- to the dir
ect problems and the overall requirements and validation process.  Ariane 5 flies successfully today, Ariane 4 was retired in 2000 and the next Ariane 5 launch is in June 2003 [ESA].  
\par 
\par [ ... ]
\par 
\par -- orcmid traveling with Compagno
\par -----------------------------------------
\par Dennis E. Hamilton | on-line M.Sc in IT student | KIT eLearning
\par mailto:Dennis_Hamilton@embanet.com | gsm:+1-206.779.9430
\par mailto:Dennis.Hamilton@acm.org | http://orcmid.com
\par 
\par 
\par }}