{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f1\fnil \fcharset0 \cpg1252 Arial;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green102\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}\plain <FCFORMSHEADER>\par <?xml version="1.0"?>\par \par <!DOCTYPE FIRSTCLASS SYSTEM "firstclass.dtd">\par \par <firstclass>\par \par \tab <fcobject objtype="oMessage" formid="141" objname="MSC-PM-041014-07 Assg 2,Embanet">\par \par \tab \tab <subject index="0" >Project (Individual) - Hamilton</subject>\par \par \tab \tab <tonames index="0" >MSC-PM-041014-07 Assg 2,Embanet</tonames>\par \par \tab \tab <field id="13" index="0" type="number">0</field>\par \par \tab </fcobject>\par \par </firstclass>\par \par </FCFORMSHEADER>\par \pard\f1\b0\i0\ul0\strike0\fcqt0\nosupersub\fs28\cf1\cb2\fi0\ri0\li0\ql\sb0\sl0 OK, it is 7 pages of actual content.\par \par I feel like I am writing a proposal response to an RFP.  \par \par  - Dennis\par \par \b\fs20 Gail Miles,Embanet writes:\par \fs28\cf3 Project 1 (Individual) \endash  due Wednesday to Assignments folder\par \b0\cf1 \par Throughout this course students will work on a project of their own choosing. The project can be a website (e.g. ecommerce site selling sports equipment) or a traditional software development project (e.g. payroll application).  While some of the functionality of the system may be purchased from third party vendors, \b it is presumed that the software for the project will primarily be developed in-house\b0 . It is also presumed that any hardware or software (e.g. database management system) needed for this new system must be purchased.\par \par Students will complete the \b Goals and Objectives\b0  section of their project plan. This section includes the following sub-sections: statement of scope, general requirements, system context, major constraints, and external resources required. It is expected that your completed document will be between 3 and 4\b\cf4  \b0\cf1 pages in length.\par \par This deliverable should be in the following format. This is a textual discussion. No WBS should be created at this point.\par \par       \par 1.\tab Project name\par 2.\tab Business goals and project goals\par 3.\tab Scope\par 4.\tab Time and budget constraints\par 5.\tab General Requirements\par 6.\tab Technical Requirements \par \li720 a.\tab Standards\par b.\tab Existing systems and interfaces\par c.\tab Hardware\par d.\tab Operating systems\par e.\tab Networking\par f.\tab Application software\par g.\tab Security\par h.\tab Scalability, availability, reliability\par i.\tab Maintenance\par \li0 j.\tab Disaster recovery\par 7.\tab Training and documentation\par 8.\tab Installation\par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \fs20 \par \fs28 \par \par -------------------------------\par Dennis E. Hamilton | KIT eLearning student | University of Liverpool M.ScIT \par mailto:Dennis.Hamilton@liverpool.ac.uk | gsm:+1-206.779.9430\par http://orcmid.com | http://nfoWare.com | http://miser-theory.info\par OpenPGP fingerprint BFE5 EFB8 CB51 8781 5274  C056 D80D 0C3F A393 27EC\par <http://pgp.mit.edu:11371/pks/lookup?search=orcmid&op=index&fingerprint=on>\par \par }